---
title: 2025-06-23
date: 2025-06-23
layout: layouts/post.njk
tags: meta 
---

Still getting caught up in pedantry because I'm not sure *where* to write now. This place is for this thing and that place is for that thing. But no place for actually writing.

The truth is of course that any place is place for actually writing. Any time you're sitting and thinking about it and using a way to record things. Any time the process is painful and hard. Everything worth doing requires some measure of concentration. Perhaps there are people who find it easy. It is a road that has hills and valleys. Some times it's easy to go down a gradient, and other times every word is a struggle. 

The truth perhaps is that I always should have been writing, that this is where I feel like myself. I feel like I can see myself on the page. 

~

I want to be free of pedantry. I read the definition of pedantry and it chilled me

> _the quality of being too interested in formal rules and small details that are not important_
> 
> https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/pedantry

~

I feel like I value minimalism and yet it is possible to be a pedant about this more than anything. If only a few things, then *which* few things and *why*. 


Pedantry has value in the world of design. Pedantry is a form of chest beating. Not necessarily masculine but a show of territory, a demand for respect.

~

I'm writing about design and designers as if it applies to anyone else. When people say "people say" they are really talking about themselves. Any opinion ascribed to a generalised third party is the opinion of the first party. 

~

I was writing an essay on epistemology and design. I should pick it up again. I dodged myself out of it. I talked myself out of it. I outsmarted myself into avoidance. I'd rather write words of pedantry than get into something hard like that. Pedantry is a big source of procrastination. If procrastination has an emotional origin, then pedantry does too. 

~

Trying to fix pedantry is meta-pedantry. It's replacing correctness with non-correctness. Ego maintenance. 

~

Perhaps I will just have an open note for the day and then put things in it as I go along and think of things? Perhaps there will be no rules at all other than those which emerge.

~

I should be mindful that writing here in a blog that nobody will really read stops one important side of online writing -- feedback loops. It's hard to know whether or not something resonates with anyone if you are forever shouting into the void. The exercise at the moment however is just getting used to the habit of writing and publishing. The exercise is just to remove the friction between writing and getting things out there. Perhaps it is cowardly to do it this way and almost avoid eyes.

I feel that my life could have been different if I'd searched out more contemporaries to work alongside. I always wanted to do things my own way, to isolate myself. There was no-one to keep me honest and keep me on-track. Things are easy to dodge when there is no one there to keep you on the path. Dodging is something people do to get out of doing something. The intellect will always be there to invent a path away from something unpleasant. It can be relied upon to do that. 

Pedantry is the curse of my life. The way that I dodge things is by getting caught up in small details. I work on tiny parts of a whole and neglect the parts that mean delivery. I notice this pattern in my life again and again. Sometimes the details are important, but more important is getting things done and getting things out. Shipping things is part of the feedback loop.


~

Just enormously frustrated trying to get the blog actually working. Using GPT to code is sometimes good and sometimes it sucks. I think it's a lot to do with the computer I am using as well. The smaller computer is good for more writing based tasks as it has less distractions. It has less big screens and this prevents having too many things open at once. The downside of this is that there is a lot of switching between windows that can get extremely repetitive. There are a lot of shortcuts and things like that to remember. 

~

I'm feeling extremely frustrated with things. I feel like I am rushing perhaps. That getting into doing things takes a long time. That I'm not sure what it is that I should be doing when even get there. This leads to a feeling that I often have that I am wasting my time with whatever I am doing. Whatever I am doing seems to be the wrong thing to do. This has to do with my individual tolerance for ambiguity. There is a tension there between the system and freedom. If there was a system I would quickly become sick of it and rebel against it. If there is no system at all then I feel uncomfortable in the ambiguity. Ultimately however it is not whether there is a system at all that is the issue, it is how one chooses to see things.

Another tension: between that which strives, and that which surrenders. To strive is to actively enforce will upon the universe. To surrender is to let yourself be carried by outside forces. The striving is externalising thought, the surrender is internalising the universe. Perhaps then it is like breath itself, a constant intercourse between these things. A skilful person could turn this interplay into a dance. 

Imagine a state on a gradient that runs from chaos to order, or structure to rupture. Then orthogonal to this a gradient from surrender to strive. It seems an unhappy place to be striving in ambiguity, but this is where I often seem to find myself. 

~

Keep writing until there's nothing left. (There's always something left)

~

Perhaps it's the tool I'm using. Perhaps the laptop is just bad for this kind of development. Whatever the case, it is time to stop doing this for now. I would like to have had it resolved. I would like to be able to not take this as a personal affront. Sometimes it's hard because while I need to be conscious of pedantry (and meta pedantry) it find it really hard to move forward with things if I have something lodged in my head. I just want to get something working and I have a minimum threshold for this. Developing this site involves a lot of really unpleasant loops. This is because I am coding with the ChatGPT. It doesn't really know what it is doing and this means it can make me do things that do not make sense. I am kind of used to the code not making sense at all. This is perhaps the problem. I refused to learn to code enough of 11ty to have it working myself, and suffer because of this shortcut.