---
title: 2025-06-24-0857
date: 2025-06-24
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

It's easy to know the stuff that is dodging. Right now I think I am dodging something. Am I feeling guilty that I am not working on something with a container? 
Perhaps there should be balance here by being at either end of the tension. You don't have to feel bad about doing this kind of meta-writing if you also approach the ambiguous task of writing with a container, some of the time. 
The tension comes is between the formal and the casual. Making a container and then bouncing off the walls.

#### Containers

A container for writing is some kind of formal aspect. 
- number of words
- subject
- structure
- content

#### Dodging

The trouble comes from containers as I will try to dodge out of them. There will always be some kind of well reasoned excuse to get out of doing it, despite the upsides. The downsides are almost always related to self protection of ego. The process of writing is very revealing to the very essence of the writer, at least it should be if it is done well. 


#### C + D
##### Social Media
LinkedIn and I really hate this. I don't like the performative aspect.
##### Essay Writing 
I didn't mind this in the beginning. I was writing about Design and Epistemology. Where did I end up? I realised that my thesis was so broad I ended up saying something that meant absolutely nothing, and that it was a fairly general idea. I changed my mind about some of the starting points. I thought in the beginning that design was not downstream of ideology. My thesis was that design creates the future conditions of design. That it was not a separate process but an open system. Design is used as a pretty open definition, and could be thought of as any conceptual and technical work used to impose intention on the world. Generally it is the powerful that have the resources and the will to do this.
Epistemology comes into this because it is the powerful that decide what is recorded and promoted as truths. Therefore design is downstream of ideology. 
I didn't find examples that show the feedback loop I believed existed in design, at least not on human scales. I believed that design is involved in an infinite iterative loop. I still believe this really but as design is an open system, both the inputs and outputs are extremely diffuse. There isn't an example of a closed system, it's not plumbing or finance. All of this intellectual fudge and nothing to really say that is of any use to anyone, least of all me. I think I still want to write something in this way because I enjoyed the formalised compression of the idea and the systematic way that the idea is opened out. 

I'm continually looking for ideas and things that pass a kind of internal stress test. As soon as it passes the test it can be safely sublimated. Externalisation of this process is part of the new way of doing things.

Lagoon of Imtal


#### New Containers
What containers then appeal to me?