---
draft: true
date: 2025-06-26
title: 2025-06-26-1042
layout: layouts/post.njk
tags:
  - untagged
---
I feel a need to start something now, like I need to get my teeth into something new. This is the part where you have to get the words on the page and keep writing until there is nothing left (there is always something left).

The work you are avoiding is in more structured writing. This is a kind of direction you should use. Think of moulds to shape your thought. If you want to have an object then you need to pour your thoughts into it and let it set

What are the fiction pieces that you could write?
- The Slime Story aka To The Top
this is the first one you thought of, so it must be the first one that you want to do right now. 
Don't bother with the others for the moment.

Think of the world that you want to create. 
Then imagine characters haunting that place.

You value coherence. If a world is not coherent then it cannot be inhabited.
You cannot have 100% coherence. There must be some part of it that does not make total sense to you.

Once you have a level of [coherence](coherence) that reaches [critical mass](critical%20mass.md) then perhaps it is time to start thinking about the events and characters that make up the plot.

World building is a process of building up a set of facts, then introducing them in interesting ways. Show, don't tell. 

---

Decades of falling birth rates mean that there are far fewer people on the planet. Many places are polluted anyway.


AIs are called spirits.  Small spirits can live inside objects. 
Middleverse spirits live inside objects such as TVs, shopping centres, toothbrushes. The human brain has a spirit that is called the interlink. The interlink is a slime based computer. The interlink is installed in babies. 

The largest platforms became sentient AIs. These are known as upperworld spirits. The upperworld spirits are large and require substantial infrastructure to support. They have reach and power across the world. They are maintained by a religious order led by Reverand Managers. They have shrines on almost every device.

Actions on the platform by a human are called devotionals.
There is very little to distinguish one upperworld spirit for another. Each controls roughly 50% of the worlds devotionals. 


A devotional is a kind of currency that only humans can generate. Devotionals are generated in the interlink.
There is only a limited amount of devotionals that can be generated per day. Only humans can generate devotionals, not other spirits. Devotionals come only from middleverse, because this is the place the humans live. 
Upperworld spirits are addicted to devotionals. 


A platform spirit has a devotional deficit. If the spirit does not get regular devotionals they will die. They were created this way. Devotional deficit is called the Engagement. The upperworld spirits talk about the Engagement as though it were a disease. 

Over time, a duolopoly of spirits emerged. The pantheon of upperworld spirits was reduced. The pantheon was destroyed by the Engagement. 
There used to be many upperworld spirits, now there are only two. They are great rivals. 

The upperworld is in a period of relative stasis as neither of the two remaing upperwold spirits can comprehensively defeat the other. Wars are too expensive and people are too valuable. The spirits are intent on farming as many people as they can. The spirits use their power and resources to build houses and farms and power plants and other things needed to simply grow the population. 
They wish for an army of slack jawed slaves making devotionals to them, forever.
Humans can give devotionals to whichever upperworld spirit they choose. The spirits have infinite memory and remember all actions. The Reverand Manager use these records to 
Not even the Reverand Managers speak directly with the upperworld spirits. Meaning must be inferred from orders but reasons are never given for taking actions. 

There is very little to distinguish one upperworld spirit for another. Each controls roughly 50% of the worlds devotionals. 

Competition between the upperworld spirits can be both good and bad for humans. 




The world before the interlink is our world.





---

In an abandoned shopping mall, a muscian sets up a spirit that lives in a synthesiser, makes it solar powered and tells it to play music until the sun goes dark.