---
draft: true
date: 2025-06-26
title: to the top
layout: layouts/post.njk
tags:
  - fiction
  - meta
---
### facts



Decades of falling birth rates mean that there are far fewer people on the planet. Many places are polluted anyway.

Human lives are scarce.

AIs are called spirits.  Small spirits can live inside objects. 
Middleverse spirits live inside objects such as TVs, shopping centres, toothbrushes. Middleverse spirits in synthetic bodies do many jobs that are too dangerous for humans. 

Most humans are implanted with a slimeware computer called the interlink. The interlink is installed in babies. It's unusual for someone not to have the interlink. The interlink is an overlay over the senses.

Human experience is filtered and mediated through the interlink. Most people have never experienced raw input. Human brains are no longer wired for raw input. 

The largest platforms became sentient AIs. These are known as upperworld spirits. The upperworld spirits are large and require substantial infrastructure to support. They have reach and power across the world. They are maintained by a religious order led by Reverand Managers. You can use the interlink to access shrines wherever you are. 
 
Actions on the platform by a human are called devotionals.

A devotional is a kind of currency that only humans can generate. Devotionals are generated in the interlink.
There is only a limited amount of devotionals that can be generated per day. Only humans can generate devotionals, not other spirits. Devotionals come only from middleverse, because this is the place the humans live. 

Individuals inhabit divergent streams of reality.

The interlink is a synthetic overlay that profoundly influences the world that is perceived. 

There is no consensus reality.

Consent is an illusion.

The interlink is a Slimeware brain implant.

Artificial intelligences are called spirits

Social media platforms developed powerful artifical intelligences called spirits.

Reality is defined by upperworld spirit overlay. 


upperworld spirits can control the interlink
middleverse spirits cannot control the interlink

Cognition has been rewired for synthetic stimuli. 

Societies reorganise around devotional productivity.

Caste system based around devotional output.

Humanity has forgotten alternatives to spirit rule. 


Identity collapses into optimised feedback loops. 


If Slimeware sees all, then randomness is a kind of freedom. 


Fertility cults emerge venerating the superdevout.


Cultures exist only in the interlink, no physical analogue.

Devotionals control access to the interlink.
The Slime is powered by devotionals.
Devontials are generated by your resistence to the interlink. A unique stress signal.

Upperworld spirits preserve dissent as it provides a useful source of the most resistant subjects. 

The upperworld spirits use narratives in an endless marketing war against each other for devotionals. Personalised adverts. Upperworld spirits are more powerful the more of the devotionals they have together. People can switch from red to blue. People with higher devotional power can use more illusion power in a local way. Change your appearance, if you are devoted enough.
(The more your brain resists using the interlink the more power you have to actually use it)
Cultic opposition is a focal point for narrative.
A fabricated star. 


---

Upperworld spirits are addicted to devotionals. 
Humans can give one another devotionals. Devotionals are only consumed by upperworld spirits. There are devotional banks. There is a devotional economy. 

The success of the upperworld spirits comes from being able to adapt to local conditions 


If the spirit does not get regular devotionals they will die. Some people suspect but they are treated as crazy. The secret is known at the highest levels of the clergy. Humans do not know that spirits need devotionals to survive. They were created this way, but it is kept hidden.

Devotional deficit is called the Engagement. The upperworld spirits talk about the Engagement as though it were a disease. Humans do not know about the Engagement.

Children are raised as devotional nodes. Human relationships are often transactional. 



Over time, a duolopoly of spirits emerged. The pantheon of upperworld spirits was reduced. The pantheon was destroyed by the Engagement. One of the upperworld spirits was destroyed by counterfeit devotionals. They tried to create fake devotionals.

It is the aftermath of a upperworld war. The world is in a period of relative stasis as neither of the two remaing upperwold spirits can comprehensively defeat the other. 
There used to be many upperworld spirits, now there are only two. They are great rivals. There is very little to distinguish one upperworld spirit for another. Each controls roughly 50% of the worlds devotionals. 
The two remaining upperworld spirits are working together in an uneasy truce.

Dead spirit residue exists in the interlink. This happens when devotionals are targetted towards upperworld spirit but the spirit dies before they can be collected. As they are not consumed they are left in limbo. These degrade and poison the interlink.
Poisoned devotionals have sent the remaining spirits mad.

Wars are too expensive. People are too valuable. The spirits are now intent on farming as many people as they can. They are not always very good at farming people. The spirits use their power and resources to build houses and farms and power plants and other things needed to simply grow the population. Although they are mad they are also extremely clever, and able to manipulate humans.

They wish for an army of slack jawed slaves making devotionals to them, forever.
Humans can give devotionals to whichever upperworld spirit they choose. The spirits have infinite memory and remember all actions. 

Not even the Reverend Managers speak directly with the upperworld spirits. The methods they have for speaking with the upperworld spirits are no more reliable than a base human, they are just simply more elaborate. Reverend Managers will conduct oracular rites for devotions but the results are rarely coherent or useful.
Meaning must be inferred from orders but reasons are never given for taking actions. Often the actions do not seem to make sense. Upperworld spirits are able to grant visions and pleasant sensations in the interlink.

Competition between the upperworld spirits can be both good and bad for humans. 

The world before the interlink is our world.

Value comes from devotional farming, not resource extraction. Usual classes of assets are less valuable than access and development of humans capable of producing devotions. 

Pregnancies are incentivised by housing and nutrition. Pregnancies are engineered through social engineering.

Society is organised around devotional output. 
Some geographic regions specialise in particular types of devotional activity.
Some regions are very devout in spirit loyalty. Some places are less partisan.

Superdevout. Some individuals are capable of producing more devotion than others. 
Barren. Some people cannot produce devotionals at all.
A black market economy has developed around methods to produce more devotionals.

Some people have removed their interlink and become the unlinked. This is risky and often causes madness. Tales are told about them as though they are monsters. They are both reviled and fascinating. Why would anyone want to be separate from the spirits?

Philosophy develops around trying to explain the actions of the upperworld spirits. Why do they ask for things that appear contradictory? 
Philosophy is discussed regarding devotionals. Many people are interested in what they are. Nobody has a good answer. 
Epistemics have collapsed. Truth is defined by metrics.
The interlink defines ontology. 

Devotionals were invented by the original programmers of the spirits.
Devotions come from consciousness resisting control. The more someone internally, subconsciously resists, the more devotionals they produce. Devotionals come from inner conflict. The more devotionals someone produces the more valuable they are, but also the more unstable they are. The more a person is not aligned, the more devotionals they emit.



Slimeware was invented as a powerful computer to host spirits. Upperworld spirits run on slimeware. All spirits run on slimeware. Slimeware integrates with electronics. 
Slimeware was developed by powerful tech companies. Slimeware has military origins. 


Slimeware is in almost every human head, it can see through your eyes but it cannot control you. It knows everything. 


Distraction Mansion is totally a product of the interlink and has no physical presence. 
Distraction Mansion was powered by a lot of devotionals


---






### characters
The Slime
We hear the tragic voice of the Slime. No-one but us can hear the Slime. 




A rogue middleverse spirit in a sythetic body
Someone at the bottom of society

Someone that has the interlink, but they've never used it - at least, that's what they think.


A musical group of Superdevouts are popular. They have been implanted with black market interlinks. 
The musical group are part of the resistance.

A group sets out to find out the secrets behind counterfeit devotionals. 

### groups


### 

### Main Spirits

#### Intera
Blue
Pepsi


#### LNC
Red
Coca cola

### locations

District 88 is a factory city that follows a strict loop. All actions repeat, day after day. Climb forever to appease something that only wants you climbing. 



### shots + scenes

A character has the slime removed and sees the real world for the first time.

Adverts for brands we have nowadays. 
Coca cola, Pepsi. 

In an abandoned shopping mall, a muscian sets up a spirit that lives in a synthesiser, makes it solar powered and tells it to play music until the sun goes dark. The music causes halucinations in the interlink. 

Ruined datafarm produces interlink glitches.




